we've been reporting the second exchange
of Hamas captives for Palestinian
prisoners hit a snag late on Saturday
here are some of the sticking points
that led to a delay of several hours
Hamas accuses Israel of violating the
agreed upon no fly zone over Southern
Gaza Israeli drones are also not allowed
in the Skies over the north between
10:00 a.m. and 400 p.m. local time Hamas
says humanitarian Aid deliveries have
fallen short of what was promised and
that the aid is not getting into
Northern Gaza Israel denies this saying
more than 50 trucks have entered the
north hamas's armed Wing the cassam
brigades says Palestinian prisoners are
not being released according to
seniority that means according to how
long they've been detained as was agreed
also some of the women and children
involved in the swap were just weeks
away from finishing their
sentences we can speak to gazi hammad
you are a member of the Hamas political
Bureau based on what happened yesterday
both the the snag as we've just
described it uh in releasing the Israeli
captives and then the flurry of
diplomacy and then the actual release of
the captives based on all of that do you
think that Hamas is going to release
more captives
today look first of all we are we are
committed to the agreement and we
respect the agreement and we have no
problem to to to continue and to fulfill
our commitment uh but I think we
discovered in the last two days that
Israel they manipulating with the
different things and and they have many
violation in the in the agreement
regarding shooting people in the ground
in the time of the truce in the changing
the names of the prison Palestinian
prisoners in the the movement of the air
jets in Gaza Strip many things I think
we told them about this violations but
yesterday I think we were surprised that
very few trucks reach North Gaza you
know situation that is very critical
very hard people are suffering from
starvation and we we ask him now to move
more trucks at least 200 trucks for
people there especially for food and U
medicine and other things but we were
shook that just three trucks reach reach
G and yesterday so sorry if I can jump
in the
UN let's address these issues one after
the other the UN says that 61 trucks of
aid went into Northern Gaza Saturday is
that enough for you do you have a
threshold do you have a number that you
have required a number of trucks or a
volume of Aid that Hamas has required
must reach the northern part of
Gaza the agreement says that at least at
least 200 trucks uh must move from the
Egyptian side to the palestin side and
we at least most of them will reach must
reach the North uh in the first day
about the three trucks and this was a
big
surprise big shock for us and yesterday
only 61 you in the north of Gaza we have
more than 600,000
people about maybe 200,000 people in the
uh
displaced regions or or places so we
need more more more tracks to move there
is there a number have you put a number
on the amount of Aid that needs
I think it is it is we talk to the H and
different parts that there is
possibility to send more and more tracks
to the north there is no limitation for
this but I think U we were surprised
that only 62 or 61 TRS only reach the
north of Gaza uh today we want we put
more guarantees because yesterday we
have strong contacts with the Egyptians
with the country with different parts
with the United Nation in order to take
guarantees that today that 200 trucks
must Reach people there and if not I
think we will take other other other
measures because they must respect what
does that mean what does that mean other
measures what happened yesterday we
delay we stop the the implementation of
the process it take more time but I
think today I think we want to be sure
100% that that trucks will reach so
right now it's almost 12:30 Gaza time as
as far as things are going today do you
see any reason anything that would cause
Hamas to once again suspend or even stop
the release of captives on day three of
this
ceasefire look we are interested to
complete this process we have no problem
we respect our commitments and we want
to continue we had put good condition
every day with the country with the
Egyptians with the United Nations with
all people and we are very interested to
to to continue and to to finish this
process but I think the manipulation and
the playing is coming from the Israel
side in different things as I mentioned
before so I think that today we want to
continue we prepare everything today but
it depends on what happened especially
in the the trucks which reach in the
North or according to our list which
sent to the different to the mediators
regarding the the names of the prisoners
women children let's talk about that
because h provides a list sir let's talk
about the names of the Palestinian
prisoners that Hamas wants to see
released because Hamas provides a list
of the captives that it releases right
and that list is provided to the
mediators and then to Israel before
captives are released so very early this
morning Israel said that it got the list
of captives that Hamas is scheduled to
release today I'm wondering whether the
same thing is happening on on the other
side meaning do you receive do you vet
do you approve a list of palestin
prisoners to be released each
day look I don't want to go in in more
details but I think we have a clear
mechanism regarding the list the list of
the hostages when we receive it when we
send it to the mediators we have contact
with the icrc I think there is a there
is a complete process clear process uh
and I think that we respect this is
yesterday and before that and today I
think we'll move in the same same ways
the same method but we need the Israeli
side now to respect the agreement and
not to change in the list of the names
of the children or the women this is
what what caused the problem to to to
drop and to to make people here angry or
upset about the behavior of the Israel
side but as I said now we are walking
day and night in order to pray
everything to be clear what kind of
prisoners what kind of prisoners do you
want to see Israel
release I think we have we have already
we have list we have list we we have
list of the 300 prisoners including
children and women and I think now that
the mediators they have this list we
need them to release from this
list now but sometimes they they bring
some people from out of the list and
this is not accepted by by Hamas you
know after its attack on October 7th
Hamas said that it had enough captives
to release all Palestinian prisoners in
Israeli jails since then Israel arrested
3,145 Palestinians in the occupied West
Bank that means there are now far more
Palestinians in Israeli jails than there
were before hamas's attacks your
thoughts on
that look I think this is our our main
job of even from the operationa is to
release all the prison prisoners and in
the detes in the Israel Detention Center
this is a
holy object for the for Hamas and for
the Palestinian people and I think we
are supported by by people inside and
outside even with all three people in
the world now I think we have now a
chance to do that uh we have some
military in the in our hand I think we
are ready to make a comprehensive deal
uh I think when when we finish this
point of hostages and the children and
women I think we are ready now for the
next stage in order to make a swap and
exchange for the the the the prison in
the Israeli detention and we are ready
to release all of the all of the solders
and officers in our hand and to clean
and to release all the prisoners from
the Israel and and have you re have you
got any engagement show any kind of
consessions in this point has Israel
engaged with this this idea of a total
Swap and you told me the same thing two
days ago you're willing to to release
all the captives that Hamas is holding
uh in exchange potentially for Israel
releasing all the Palestinians that's
more than six 7,000 now 7,000
Palestinians in Israeli jails have you
got engagement from Israel on this
issue look I think maybe Israel now
sometimes show kind of arrogance that we
are not as this started the beginning of
this operation against Gaza and they
said said we will not negotiate with
Hamas we want to break the bond of Hamas
we want to destroy everything of Hamas
we will bring the hostages with the
military power but I think they failed
to do that they fa is that a no no
traction bring
theost no I think now they now they are
convinced that they can do that through
through the negotiation only through the
negotiation and we as Hamas and and the
resistance we succeeded to impose our
condition to release prisoners now to
allow for their assistance and to do
many things so I think that this is a
big victory for the Palestinian
people and a big failure for Israel
which at all the time slog against that
they are ready to destroy everything in
Gaza and to bring everything by military
power but I think they failed to do that
currently is it your expectation that
the ceasefire will continue beyond day
four before beyond the current 4-day
deal we are working in this I think we
are now interested it is our priority
now to stop the aggression of our people
to serve murdering and massacr and
genocide in Gaza we have good context
with the c with the Egyptians with the
Turkish with different I think most of
people even people in Europe more all of
them they said that we are interested to
stop this brutal war in Gaza we want to
stop the genocide against Gaza there are
no goals for Israel now in Gaza now that
they kill just about 15,000 civilians
most of them children the woman what
they are going to do in Gaza now after
that so I think we are working with
different parts in order to
uh stop this war and to stop this
aggression against people will do
everything politically or in different
means in order to stop the aggression we
hope that we can extend the the the
truth or C and to give people more time
in order to pre in order to RK in order
to to that that they can move in the
street can go to the markets can they
find food I hope that we are doing our
our p in order to extend the the the F
sir What About Us Nationals do you
intend to release
Americans I know the Americans in
general we are we are abset from the
policy of the American Administration
and we know that all the time they are
supporting Israel they give him time now
to kill and more we said frankly from
the beginning of this war that United
States is a part in this crime part in
genocide part ethic cleansing is there
any negotiation right
is there any negotiation right now that
involves releasing American Nationals
currently in Hamas
captivity look we are not looking for
this is nationalities American and
Russian we have different nationalities
now we are have a list we are moving in
step by step it is organized very well
in Hamas organization and we have good
contacts with the mediators I think the
process is going very well regardless
that this is American or Russian or
different
we are interested to release all the
civilians and to release some of the
children and women from the Israeli
detention centers and gazi hammad a
member of hamas's political Bureau thank
you for joining us on the program thank
you